# Billing Count using Map/Reduce and AI Model to Predict

I am using Google's Map/Reduce and Apache Beam, a practical tool, to streamline my billing data processing. This includes calculating the total amount each customer has spent on Google Cloud Platform (GCP) services. Additionally, I am utilizing Apache Beam to continuously receive streaming data published by the Pub/Sub service. I employ windowing techniques to segment the unbounded data into smaller windows.

## Map Reduce Implement

- Input reader 
    - Read streaming data from Pub/Sub service publications in GCP and partition it into windows:
    ```
        beam.WindowInto(
            FixedWindows(1*5) , 
            trigger=AfterAny(AfterWatermark( 
                early=AfterProcessingTime(10),
                late=AfterProcessingTime(30)
            )),
            accumulation_mode=AccumulationMode.DISCARDING
        )
    ```
- Map Phase
    - `Map(k1,v1) → list(k2,v2)`
    ```
      beam.Map(lambda billing: (billing.company, billing.cost))  
    ```
- Shuffle and Sort Phase 
    - The intermediate key-value pairs generated by the mappers are shuffled and sorted based on the keys
- Reduce Phase
    - `Reduce(k2, list (v2)) → list((k3, v3))`
    ```
        beam.CombinePerKey(sum)
    ```

## Running Platform 
- DataFlow

## Tools Used
- Apache beam
- GCP Pub/Sub 

## AI Model Prediction
> calculation process is in **prediction.ipynb**
- Linear Regression Model
    - To predict the future cost of each GCP service, I input gcp services and every sum cost to `Linear Regression` model to train the model, And use this trained model to predict future service cost.
    - r is the relationship between service and sum cost. The r value ranges from -1 to 1, where 0 means no relationship, and 1 (and -1) means 100% related.
    ```
    r = 0.2276403489710411
    Compute Engine future cost = 0.064
    ```
- Polynomial Regression
    - To predict the future cost of each GCP service, I input gcp services and every sum cost to `Polynomial Regression` model to train the model, And use this trained model to predict future service cost.
    - The r-squared value ranges from 0 to 1, where 0 means no relationship, and 1 means 100% related.
    ```
    r2 = 1.0
    Compute Engine future cost = 0.04
    ```

## DataBase
- Cloud SQL (MySQL)
- SQLAlchemy : for migration and database version

## Impact
By applying Map/Reduce to our billing counting system, we have significantly reduced the processing time for handling large volumes of data. The parallel processing capabilities of Map/Reduce allow for concurrent processing of billing data from different companies, resulting in faster and more efficient calculations.

--- 
## Start Service
1. Create and Activate virtual environment
```
python3 -m venv ma_venv
source ma_venv
```
2. Install required packages
```
pip install requirements.txt
```
3. Set google environment variable
```
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/Users/apple/Code/Ann/master/service-account-key.json
```
4. Run the app
```
flask --app ann_app run --debug
```

---
## DataFlow
- Create classic dataflow template
```
python -m ann_app.services.data_pipeline_service \
--runner DataflowRunner \
--project $GCP_PROJECT_ID \
--template_location $GCS_BUCKET \
--region $REGION
```

- Execute data pipeline in local

`
python -m ann_app.services.billing_service
`